Let G be a group and a ∈ G. If a is a finite group, then the
element a has finite order. In this case, the order of a is equal to the order of
the subgroup generated by a. If a is an infinite group, the element a has infinite
order.

Every subgroup of a cyclic group is cyclic.

Let G = a be an infinite cyclic group with identity e, and let
b = e be an element in G. Then b is an infinite cyclic group.

Let n be an integer with n ≥ 3. The dihedral group of order 2n
is the group of symmetries of a regular n-gon.


A subset S of a group G generates G if every element in G can
be written as a finite combination of the elements of S.
r, R | r 2 = 1, Rn = 1, rR = R−1 r .

Dn = {r i Rj : i, j ∈ Z},
414


A permutation of a set S is a bijection f : S → S.

For n ≥ 2, the alternating group An is the subgroup
of Sn consisting of the even permutations in Sn .


Let G be a group and H a subgroup of G. The index of H in G
is the number of distinct left cosets of H in G.

Let G be a group. A subgroup N of G is normal in G (or is a
normal subgroup of G) if aN = N a for all a ∈ G.1

Let G be a group and N ⊳ G. Recall that the operation on G/N defined as
(aN )(bN ) = (ab)N
(25.2)
is well-defined. It is natural to ask what kind of structure this operation imposes on
G/N .

Let G be a group and N a normal subgroup of G. The quotient
group (or factor group) of G by N is the group
G/N = {aN : a ∈ G}
with the operation (aN )(bN ) = (ab)N for all a, b ∈ G.

If G is a group and G/Z(G) is cyclic, then G is Abelian.

A group G is simple if G has no nontrivial proper normal sub-
groups.

Let n be an integer, n ≥ 5. Then An contains no nontrivial
normal subgroup.

Let G and H be groups with operations ·G and ·H , respectively.
The external direct product G ⊕ H of G and H is the Cartesian product G × H,
together with an operation defined componentwise – that is,
(g1 , h1 )(g2 , h2 ) = (g1 ·G g2 , h1 ·H h2 ).

(Cayley’s Theorem). Every group is a subgroup of a group of per-
mutations.




The dihedral group was the first type of group that we were introduced to. This 


Let S be a set on which an associative binary operation of
multiplication is defined such that S contains an identity element 1S . Let
U (S) be the set of units in S. Then U (S) is a group under the operation
of multiplication.
